- [Instructor] Sometimes when building out decompositions,
you run into more complex processes in certain cases.
Often, these processes don't fit into a single domain,
but the domains themselves can live in a standalone fashion.
Enter into the picture business process-based microservices.
A business process service can help you build
a more structured microservices architecture.
The problem that you may be faced with
is that in order to replicate business processes
across different components,
you have to recreate the same code logic multiple times.
Especially, when they span multiple domains.
In order to adhere to the don't repeat yourself principle
and to help simplify your architecture,
you can leverage business process domains
as a higher level of service within your architecture.
First and foremost,
it provides a higher level of abstraction
written around specific business functionality.
This help you not only encapsulate these uses,
but scale them more effectively in your system.
It also provides a mechanism
to encapsulate your related domains.
The key here is that these domains
need individual access as well.
If you are simply encapsulating data domains,
but they are always accessed through the process domain,
your domain model is not built correctly.
Building extra layers for uniformity, for instance,
only increases your network traffic unnecessarily.
One key aspect in business process services
is that they don't have their own data access.
This allows you to not muddy the waters
between business domains and data domains.
While this rule should be considered, many do ignore it.
From my experience, however, this will bring you
a lot of headaches going forward.
It is better to keep your boundaries tight
and work within the overall architectural model.
The final key aspect is that they should have distinct,
functional uses.
You don't want to build out all of your business processes
into a single domain package.
If they are related, especially in uses,
it is fine to put them together,
but be very careful you don't layer a monolith
into your system with business processes.
Building a business process service
is fairly straightforward.
You start by identifying the process
with which you want to expose.
This may sound simple, but oftentimes the rules definitions
are very specific when it comes to these business processes.
As such, you need to spend some significant time here
gathering requirements and ensuring
you have the data you need before you start.
Once you have your business process,
you should be able to identify the data domains
that you will need to consume.
Next, you need to define the APIs
that handle your business processes.
Once again, we focus on the contract
and not the underlying models.
The APIs should represent the actual processes
that are needed and many times you may find
that the action pattern for RESTful services is very useful
in this level abstraction.
Finally, we will build our service and wire the API
to the client calls for the domain services.
It is recommended that you actually encapsulate
your business process code into its own module
for easy access.
This will make it clearer where to make the changes
when the business process itself changes,
and it will change.
Let's take a look real quick
at a visual representation of the design strategy
around using business process services.
First and foremost, we define our processes themselves.
In this case, our service will expose three related
but different processes.
We assume we have done our due diligence
and look at current and future usage patterns
to determine that these services can scale well together
without waste.
Now, we will identify the domain or domains
that these business processes need to interact with.
In this case, we have two unique data domains.
Each of these has an associated data store
that we have removed for simplification.
Now, we define the APIs for our business processes.
In this case, we have one API for each.
Remember, the action pattern for REST can be your friend
if traditional REST verbs don't do well
in your business processes.
Now, we will implement and wire our service together
using client code to interact with our data domains
over REST.
The implementation should be a box to the outside world.
However, consider using internal modules for each process
or stepping the process as this will help you iterate
as the process changes over time.